README.md, before:

# Microstream CDI extension

The Microstream CDI extension is an open-source project to integrate the Jakarta EE/MicroProfile world with the Microstream persistence solution.

This project has two minimum requirements:

* A [CDI](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/) 2.0 implementation or higher
* An [Eclipse MicroProfile Config](https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config) 2.0 implementation or higher

## Features

### StorageManager

You're enabled to inject the ```StorageManager``` easily using MicroProfile Config to read the properties.

```java
@Inject
private StorageManager manager;
```

The CDI will create an instance application-scoped, and it will close automatically.

### Storage

The Storage annotation allows injecting an entity from Microstream.

```java
@Storage
public class NameStorage {
    //...
}
```

It will create/load this annotation using CDI.

```java
@Inject
private NameStorage nameStorage;
```

### Cache

You can use Microsctream as a cache as well, thanks to the ```StorageCache``` annotation.

```java
@Inject
@StorageCache
private Cache<String, Integer> counter;
```

You also have the option to inject both ```CachingProvider``` and ```CacheManager``` using CDI.

```java
@Inject
@StorageCache
private CachingProvider provider;

@Inject
@StorageCache
private CacheManager cacheManager;
```

## Eclipse MicroProfile Configuration

The integration allows receiving all information from the Eclipse MicroProfile Config instead of either a programmatic
configuration or a single file.
Thus, you can overwrite any properties following the good practices in the Market, such as [the Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net/).

By default, Eclipse Microprofile will read all the properties and do a parser to Microstream, with the properties parses below. Furthermore,  you can read the properties directly as the Microstream way.

It will use the Eclipse Microprofile to read/parse the properties.

```java
@Inject
private NameStorage nameStorage;
```

This injection will look in the ```microprofile-config.properties``` file to the property that will be a file to load directly by Micrscrostream with the ``EmbeddedStorageConfiguration.load(value);`` method.

```java
@Inject
@ConfigProperty(name = "microstream.ini")
private NameStorage nameStorage;
```




### Core

The relation with the properties from [Microstream docs](https://docs.microstream.one/manual/storage/configuration/properties.html):

* ```microstream.storage.directory```: storage-directory; The base directory of the storage in the file system. Default is "storage" in the working directory.
* ```microstream.storage.filesystem```: storage-filesystem; The live file system configuration. See storage targets configuration.
* ```microstream.deletion.directory```: deletion-directory; If configured, the storage will not delete files. Instead of deleting a file it will be moved to this directory.
* ```microstream.truncation.directory```: truncation-directory; If configured, files that will get truncated are copied into this directory.
* ```microstream.backup.directory```: backup-directory; The backup directory.
* ```microstream.backup.filesystem```: backup-filesystem; The backup file system configuration. See storage targets configuration.
* ```microstream.channel.count```: channel-count; The number of threads and number of directories used by the storage engine. Every thread has exclusive access to its directory. Default is 1.
* ```microstream.channel.directory.prefix```: channel-directory-prefix; Name prefix of the subdirectories used by the channel threads. Default is "channel_".
* ```microstream.data.file.prefix```: data-file-prefix; Name prefix of the storage files. Default is "channel_".
* ```microstream.data.file.suffix```: data-file-suffix; Name suffix of the storage files. Default is ".dat".
* ```microstream.transaction.file.prefix```: transaction-file-prefix; Name prefix of the storage transaction file. Default is "transactions_".
* ```microstream.transaction.file.suffix```: transaction-file-suffix; Name suffix of the storage transaction file. Default is ".sft".
* ```microstream.type.dictionary.file.name```: type-dictionary-file-name; The name of the dictionary file. Default is "PersistenceTypeDictionary.ptd".
* ```microstream.rescued.file.suffix```: rescued-file-suffix; Name suffix of the storage rescue files. Default is ".bak".
* ```microstream.lock.file.name```: lock-file-name; Name of the lock file. Default is "used.lock".
* ```microstream.housekeeping.interval```: housekeeping-interval; Interval for the housekeeping. This is work like garbage collection or cache checking. In combination with houseKeepingNanoTimeBudget the maximum processor time for housekeeping work can be set. Default is 1 second.
* ```microstream.housekeeping.time.budget```: housekeeping-time-budget; Number of nanoseconds used for each housekeeping cycle. Default is 10 milliseconds = 0.01 seconds.
* ```microstream.entity.cache.threshold```: entity-cache-threshold; Abstract threshold value for the lifetime of entities in the cache. Default is 1000000000.
* ```microstream.entity.cache.timeout```: entity-cache-timeout; Timeout in milliseconds for the entity cache evaluator. If an entity wasn’t accessed in this timespan it will be removed from the cache. Default is 1 day.
* ```microstream.data.file.minimum.size```: data-file-minimum-size; Minimum file size for a data file to avoid cleaning it up. Default is 1024^2 = 1 MiB.
* ```microstream.data.file.maximum.size```: data-file-maximum-size; Maximum file size for a data file to avoid cleaning it up. Default is 1024^2*8 = 8 MiB.
* ```microstream.data.file.minimum.use.ratio```: data-file-minimum-use-ratio; The ratio (value in ]0.0;1.0]) of non-gap data contained in a storage file to prevent the file from being dissolved. Default is 0.75 (75%).
* ```microstream.data.file.cleanup.head.file```: data-file-cleanup-head-file; A flag defining whether the current head file (the only file actively written to) shall be subjected to file cleanups as well.
* ```microstream.property```: llow custom properties in through Microprofile, using this prefix. E.g.: If you want to include the "custom.test" property, you will set it as "microstream.property.custom.test"

### Cache

The relation with the properties from [Microstream docs](https://docs.microstream.one/manual/cache/configuration/properties.html):

There is a list of properties in the ```CacheProperties``` enum.

The primary purpose of this configuration is to allow you to explore the Configuration of Cache through Eclipse MicroProfile.
     
* ```microstream.cache.loader.factory```: cacheLoaderFactory - A CacheLoader should be configured for "Read Through" caches to load values when a cache miss occurs.
* ```microstream.cache.writer.factory```: cacheWriterFactory - A CacheWriter is used for write-through to an external resource.
* ```microstream.cache.expires.factory```: expiryPolicyFactory - Determines when cache entries will expire based on creation, access and modification operations.
* ```microstream.cache.read.through```: readThrough - When in "read-through" mode, cache misses that occur due to cache entries not existing as a result of performing a "get" will appropriately cause the configured CacheLoader to be invoked.
* ```microstream.cache.write.through```: writeThrough - When in "write-through" mode, cache updates that occur as a result of performing "put" operations will appropriately cause the configured CacheWriter to be invoked. 
* ```microstream.cache.store.value```: storeByValue - When a cache is storeByValue, any mutation to the key or value does not affect the key of value stored in the cache.
* ```microstream.cache.statistics```: statisticsEnabled - Checks whether statistics collection is enabled in this cache. 
* ```microstream.cache.management```: managementEnabled - Checks whether management is enabled on this cache. 

## Microstream

MicroStream Data-Store is a native Java object graph storage engine. From a technical point of view it serves one purpose only:

**To fully or partially persist and restore a Java object graph in the simplest way possible for the user.**

## Links

* [Website](https://microstream.one/)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microstream.one/manual/intro/welcome.html)
* [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/c/MicroStream)

Commit message:

Add more option about a second cache
Signed-off-by: Otavio Santana <otaviopolianasantana@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Microstream CDI extension

The Microstream CDI extension is an open-source project to integrate the Jakarta EE/MicroProfile world with the Microstream persistence solution.

This project has two minimum requirements:

* A [CDI](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/) 2.0 implementation or higher
* An [Eclipse MicroProfile Config](https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config) 2.0 implementation or higher

## Features

### StorageManager

You're enabled to inject the ```StorageManager``` easily using MicroProfile Config to read the properties.

```java
@Inject
private StorageManager manager;
```

The CDI will create an instance application-scoped, and it will close automatically.

### Storage

The Storage annotation allows injecting an entity from Microstream.

```java
@Storage
public class NameStorage {
    //...
}
```

It will create/load this annotation using CDI.

```java
@Inject
private NameStorage nameStorage;
```

### Cache

You can use Microsctream as a cache as well, thanks to the ```StorageCache``` annotation.

```java
@Inject
@StorageCache
private Cache<String, Integer> counter;
```

You have the option to declare more than one cache from the same configuration from the name.

```java
@Inject
@StorageCache("jcache2")
private Cache<String, Integer> counter;
```

You also have the option to inject both ```CachingProvider``` and ```CacheManager``` using CDI.

```java
@Inject
@StorageCache
private CachingProvider provider;

@Inject
@StorageCache
private CacheManager cacheManager;
```

## Eclipse MicroProfile Configuration

The integration allows receiving all information from the Eclipse MicroProfile Config instead of either a programmatic
configuration or a single file.
Thus, you can overwrite any properties following the good practices in the Market, such as [the Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net/).

By default, Eclipse Microprofile will read all the properties and do a parser to Microstream, with the properties parses below. Furthermore,  you can read the properties directly as the Microstream way.

It will use the Eclipse Microprofile to read/parse the properties.

```java
@Inject
private NameStorage nameStorage;
```

This injection will look in the ```microprofile-config.properties``` file to the property that will be a file to load directly by Micrscrostream with the ``EmbeddedStorageConfiguration.load(value);`` method.

```java
@Inject
@ConfigProperty(name = "microstream.ini")
private NameStorage nameStorage;
```




### Core

The relation with the properties from [Microstream docs](https://docs.microstream.one/manual/storage/configuration/properties.html):

* ```microstream.storage.directory```: storage-directory; The base directory of the storage in the file system. Default is "storage" in the working directory.
* ```microstream.storage.filesystem```: storage-filesystem; The live file system configuration. See storage targets configuration.
* ```microstream.deletion.directory```: deletion-directory; If configured, the storage will not delete files. Instead of deleting a file it will be moved to this directory.
* ```microstream.truncation.directory```: truncation-directory; If configured, files that will get truncated are copied into this directory.
* ```microstream.backup.directory```: backup-directory; The backup directory.
* ```microstream.backup.filesystem```: backup-filesystem; The backup file system configuration. See storage targets configuration.
* ```microstream.channel.count```: channel-count; The number of threads and number of directories used by the storage engine. Every thread has exclusive access to its directory. Default is 1.
* ```microstream.channel.directory.prefix```: channel-directory-prefix; Name prefix of the subdirectories used by the channel threads. Default is "channel_".
* ```microstream.data.file.prefix```: data-file-prefix; Name prefix of the storage files. Default is "channel_".
* ```microstream.data.file.suffix```: data-file-suffix; Name suffix of the storage files. Default is ".dat".
* ```microstream.transaction.file.prefix```: transaction-file-prefix; Name prefix of the storage transaction file. Default is "transactions_".
* ```microstream.transaction.file.suffix```: transaction-file-suffix; Name suffix of the storage transaction file. Default is ".sft".
* ```microstream.type.dictionary.file.name```: type-dictionary-file-name; The name of the dictionary file. Default is "PersistenceTypeDictionary.ptd".
* ```microstream.rescued.file.suffix```: rescued-file-suffix; Name suffix of the storage rescue files. Default is ".bak".
* ```microstream.lock.file.name```: lock-file-name; Name of the lock file. Default is "used.lock".
* ```microstream.housekeeping.interval```: housekeeping-interval; Interval for the housekeeping. This is work like garbage collection or cache checking. In combination with houseKeepingNanoTimeBudget the maximum processor time for housekeeping work can be set. Default is 1 second.
* ```microstream.housekeeping.time.budget```: housekeeping-time-budget; Number of nanoseconds used for each housekeeping cycle. Default is 10 milliseconds = 0.01 seconds.
* ```microstream.entity.cache.threshold```: entity-cache-threshold; Abstract threshold value for the lifetime of entities in the cache. Default is 1000000000.
* ```microstream.entity.cache.timeout```: entity-cache-timeout; Timeout in milliseconds for the entity cache evaluator. If an entity wasn’t accessed in this timespan it will be removed from the cache. Default is 1 day.
* ```microstream.data.file.minimum.size```: data-file-minimum-size; Minimum file size for a data file to avoid cleaning it up. Default is 1024^2 = 1 MiB.
* ```microstream.data.file.maximum.size```: data-file-maximum-size; Maximum file size for a data file to avoid cleaning it up. Default is 1024^2*8 = 8 MiB.
* ```microstream.data.file.minimum.use.ratio```: data-file-minimum-use-ratio; The ratio (value in ]0.0;1.0]) of non-gap data contained in a storage file to prevent the file from being dissolved. Default is 0.75 (75%).
* ```microstream.data.file.cleanup.head.file```: data-file-cleanup-head-file; A flag defining whether the current head file (the only file actively written to) shall be subjected to file cleanups as well.
* ```microstream.property```: llow custom properties in through Microprofile, using this prefix. E.g.: If you want to include the "custom.test" property, you will set it as "microstream.property.custom.test"

### Cache

The relation with the properties from [Microstream docs](https://docs.microstream.one/manual/cache/configuration/properties.html):

There is a list of properties in the ```CacheProperties``` enum.

The primary purpose of this configuration is to allow you to explore the Configuration of Cache through Eclipse MicroProfile.
     
* ```microstream.cache.loader.factory```: cacheLoaderFactory - A CacheLoader should be configured for "Read Through" caches to load values when a cache miss occurs.
* ```microstream.cache.writer.factory```: cacheWriterFactory - A CacheWriter is used for write-through to an external resource.
* ```microstream.cache.expires.factory```: expiryPolicyFactory - Determines when cache entries will expire based on creation, access and modification operations.
* ```microstream.cache.read.through```: readThrough - When in "read-through" mode, cache misses that occur due to cache entries not existing as a result of performing a "get" will appropriately cause the configured CacheLoader to be invoked.
* ```microstream.cache.write.through```: writeThrough - When in "write-through" mode, cache updates that occur as a result of performing "put" operations will appropriately cause the configured CacheWriter to be invoked. 
* ```microstream.cache.store.value```: storeByValue - When a cache is storeByValue, any mutation to the key or value does not affect the key of value stored in the cache.
* ```microstream.cache.statistics```: statisticsEnabled - Checks whether statistics collection is enabled in this cache. 
* ```microstream.cache.management```: managementEnabled - Checks whether management is enabled on this cache. 

## Microstream

MicroStream Data-Store is a native Java object graph storage engine. From a technical point of view it serves one purpose only:

**To fully or partially persist and restore a Java object graph in the simplest way possible for the user.**

## Links

* [Website](https://microstream.one/)
* [Documentation](https://docs.microstream.one/manual/intro/welcome.html)
* [Videos](https://www.youtube.com/c/MicroStream)
